Building a remote control vehicle using a Raspberry Pi

Motor circuit diagram  Battery Pack
Battery Pack and Cable  Raspberry Pi, Pi Face and Tank
The assembled tank  Pi Face powered tank
I've built a simple remote controlled tank to illustrate some of the points that
 I've made in previous posts. I'm minimizing the amount of electronics I need to 
do by using a Pi Face board which can easily power two motors. To control the tank,
 I made a simple web interface which I can access from my laptop. The Pi connects 
to my home network using a USB wifi dongle.

The tank I'm using a very simple. It's just a chasis, a couple of motors and a 
battery pack.

If you want to build something like this, you'll need to install Apache, set up
 your wifi connection and install wiringPi. You'll also need to set up the Pi 
Face software.

Battery powered Raspberry Pi

The tank's battery pack can hold six AA baterries which should be enough to 
power the motors and the Raspberry Pi. I'm going to connect the batteries to 
the 5V power socket on the Pi Facewhich is not regulated, so it's important to 
supply the correct voltage. The motors are powered from the same batteries, but 
they need a 6V supply. I need a split power supply. 
%ffkdj{fa'qktl=a|'flcasynlib#
a jumper cable between two of the batteries in the battery pack, and using the other
 end of the jumper cable as the 5V output. The output doesn't have to be exactly 
5V - my Pi is actually getting 5.37V. This is a little outside of tolerance, but 
it should be ok.

If you try this at home, I recommend that you use a multimeter to test the 
voltage on the cable you've just added. Different brands of batteries produce 
slightly different voltages, so instead of adding a connector between the 4th 
and 5th batteries as I did, you might want to add the cable in a different place 
in order to get a 5V output.

Controlling motors with a Pi Face board

I connected the motors to the Pi Face as shown in the circuit diagram on the right. 
I used a breadboard to connect some of the power cables to each other. The motor's 
cables were too thick to fit in the holes on the breadboard, so I used a connector 
block to link them to a jumper cable.

One lead from each motor needs to be connect to the 6V supply, and the other lead
 from each motor needs to be connected to the middle hole in the Pi Face relay headers. 
The NO (Normally Open) holes in the relay headers need to be connected to ground.

Building a web UI

The UI is pretty simple. It consists of a single web page with four icons on it. 
The icons are buttons which turn on one of the motors to turn left or right, both 
motors to go forwards, and turn both motors off in order to stop. When the icons
 are clicked, some Javascript code calls the CGI scripts that control the motors.

